ci_example_cpp/doc/cpp_coding_guidelines.md, before:

Coding Guidelines {#coding_guidelines_0}
=================

## I. Introduction

These are the internal C++ guidelines for the
[machines-in-motion](https://wp.nyu.edu/machinesinmotion/) group. The same
guidelines are used in the
[Open Dynamic Robot Initiative](https://open-dynamic-robot-initiative.github.io/)

The following rules present basic guidelines for our C++ code.
The goal is to have code that is formatted in a consistent and easily readable
way while at the same time not being overly complicated by specifying every
detail. For such guidelines to be practical, newcomers should be able to read
them within a few minutes and be able to memorize them. So these rules
intentionally do not cover every detail but rather aim at specifying only the
big, important things.

If this is too simple for you and you want more rules, you are encouraged to
read the
[Google C++ Style Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html) on
which these rules are based. Note, however,
that we have a few small deviations from the Google style.

These guidelines may evolve in time so it is first
good practice to check them upon creation of a new package or code refactoring.

## II. Folder Structure and File Naming


- Header files should be in a folder: `include/<name_of_the_project>/*`,
    e.g. `#include "ci_example_cpp/gains_configuration.hpp"`
- File extension for header files: `.hpp`
- Source files should be in a folder named `src/`. The file should have the
    same name as the header with extension `.cpp`.
- When using templates:  If you want to separate declaration and definition,
    put the declaration to a `.hpp` header file as usual and the definition to
    a file with extension `.hxx` in the same directory (which is included at
    the bottom of the `.hpp` file).
- Preferably each class should be in a separate file with name
    *class_name_in_lower_case*.  However, this is not a strict rule, if
    several smaller classes are logically closely related, they may go to
    the same file.
- Executable scripts should be placed in the `scripts/` folder. And should have
    a CMake **install rule** that makes them executable upon installation.
- The C++/pybind11 code for wrapping C++ code to Python must be placed in
    `srcpy/`

## III. Naming

Give as descriptive a name as possible, within reason. Do not worry about saving
horizontal space as it is far more important to make your code immediately 
understandable by a new reader. Do not use abbreviations that are ambiguous or 
unfamiliar to readers outside your project, and do not abbreviate by deleting 
letters within a word. Abbreviations that would be familiar to someone outside 
your project with relevant domain knowledge are OK. As a rule of thumb, an 
abbreviation is probably OK if it's listed in Wikipedia.

Formatting of names should be as follows:

- types (classes, structs, ...): *FirstUpperCamelCase*
- functions, methods: *lower_case_with_underscores*
- variables: *lower_case_with_underscores*
- class members: *like_variables_but_with_trailing_underscore_*
- constants: *UPPER_CASE_WITH_UNDERSCORES*
- global variables: Should generally be avoided but if needed, prefix them with
    g_, i.e. *g_variable_name*.

## IV. Add Units to Variable Names

Variables that hold values of a specific unit should have that unit appended to
the name.  For example if a variable holds the velocity of a motor in *krpm* it
should be called `velocity_krpm` instead of `just velocity`. Some more examples:

- duration_us (use "u" instead of "µ")
- voltage_mV
- acceleration_mps2 (\f$ \frac{m}{s^2} \f$)

## V. C/C++ Formatting

### V.1. Line Length

Limit the length of lines to 80 characters.

This may seem hard to follow sometimes but makes it much easier to view two or even three files next to each other (important during code review or when resolving merge conflicts).

### V.2. Indentation

- Use spaces instead of tabs.
- 4 spaces per "tab".

### V.3. Position of braces

- Opening brace always goes to the next line.
- **Always** add braces for single-line if/loop/etc.

Example:

~~~{.c}
namespace bar
{

class Foo
{
    void my_function(const Foo &foo, int *output_arg)
    {
        if (condition)
        {
            ...
        }
        else if (other_condition)
        {
            ...
        }
        else
        {
            ...
        }

        while (condition)
        {
            ...
        }
    }
}

} // namespace
~~~

### V.3. Spaces

Add single spaces between if/for/etc., the condition and the brace. add spaces
around most binary operators. Exception: No spaces around `::`, `.` and `->`.
Also no spaces for unary operators (`i++`, `&x`, `*x`, ...).

Example:
~~~{.c}
int x = 42;
for (int i = 0; i < x; i++)
{
    int y = i * x;
    if (y == foo.bar->baz)
    {
        ...
    }
}
~~~

### V.4. Formatting of switch blocks

- See the following example for proper indentation of switch blocks.
- Always add a default case, even when it is technically not needed.
    - If the default block is empty, it shall contain a comment to indicate that
    this is intentional.
    - The default case shall either be the first or the last case, preferably the
    last.
- Non-empty cases shall be terminated by an unconditional break.

~~~{.c}
switch (x)
{
    case 1:
        // ...
        break;
 
    case 2:
        // ...
        break;
 
    case 3: // multiple cases for one block are okay
    case 4:
        // ...
        break;
 
    case 5:           // BAD. A non-empty case without break should not be
        something();  // used
    case 6:
        more();
        break;
 
    default:
        // no action needed
        break;
}
~~~

### V.5. Clang-Format Configuration

To automatically format your code according to this guidelines, you can use
clang-format with the configuration
[here](https://github.com/machines-in-motion/mpi_cmake_modules/blob/master/resources/_clang-format).

## VI. C/C++ Coding Guidelines

### VI.1. Pass objects by const reference

In general, non-primitive data types should be passed to functions by const
reference instead of by value.

~~~{.c}
void foobar(const Foo &foo);  // good
void foobar(Foo foo);  // results in copy of `foo`. Only do this if const
                       // reference is not possible for some reason.
~~~

### VI.2. *#pragma once* vs Include Guards

Prefer *#pragma once* over include guards. *#pragma once* is not part of the
official standard but is widely supported by compilers and much simpler to
maintain.

Note that there are some border cases where *#pragma once* is causing issues
(e.g. on Windows or when having a weird build setup with symlinks or copies of
files). In such cases use traditional include guards. Make sure they have unique
names by composing them from the package name and the path/name of the file
(e.g. MY_PACKAGE_PATH_TO_FILE_FILENAME_H). Please **do not** add underscore as
prefix nor suffix beccause this is reserved for the compiler preproccesor
variables.

### VI.3. Keep scopes small

Avoid adding anything to the global namespace if possible. This means

- Use a namespace when defining extern symbols.
- Use an anonymous namespace or static for symbols that are only used internally.

Generally define symbols in the smallest possible scope, i.e. if a variable is 
only used inside one loop, define it inside this loop (however, do not consider 
this to be a very strict rule, deviate from it where it seems reasonable).

### VI.4. Use types with explicit sizes

The header stdint defines primitive types with explicit sizes:
*int32_t*, *uint32_t*, *int16_t*, ...
They should be preferred over the build-in types int, unsigned, short, ...
To use them add the following include:
~~~{.c}
#include <stdint>
~~~

Commit message:

update the example in ci_exmaple_cpp + the name of the name of the code guidelines paragraphe so they reflect to which language tehy refer

ci_example_cpp/doc/cpp_coding_guidelines.md, after:

C++ Coding Guidelines {#coding_guidelines_0}
=====================

## I. Introduction

These are the internal C++ guidelines for the
[machines-in-motion](https://wp.nyu.edu/machinesinmotion/) group. The same
guidelines are used in the
[Open Dynamic Robot Initiative](https://open-dynamic-robot-initiative.github.io/)

The following rules present basic guidelines for our C++ code.
The goal is to have code that is formatted in a consistent and easily readable
way while at the same time not being overly complicated by specifying every
detail. For such guidelines to be practical, newcomers should be able to read
them within a few minutes and be able to memorize them. So these rules
intentionally do not cover every detail but rather aim at specifying only the
big, important things.

If this is too simple for you and you want more rules, you are encouraged to
read the
[Google C++ Style Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html) on
which these rules are based. Note, however,
that we have a few small deviations from the Google style.

These guidelines may evolve in time so it is first
good practice to check them upon creation of a new package or code refactoring.

## II. Folder Structure and File Naming


- Header files should be in a folder: `include/<name_of_the_project>/*`,
    e.g. @code `#include "ci_example_cpp/gains_configuration.hpp"` @endcode
- File extension for header files: `.hpp`
- Source files should be in a folder named `src/`. The file should have the
    same name as the header with extension `.cpp`.
- When using templates:  If you want to separate declaration and definition,
    put the declaration to a `.hpp` header file as usual and the definition to
    a file with extension `.hxx` in the same directory (which is included at
    the bottom of the `.hpp` file).
- Preferably each class should be in a separate file with name
    *class_name_in_lower_case*.  However, this is not a strict rule, if
    several smaller classes are logically closely related, they may go to
    the same file.
- Executable scripts should be placed in the `scripts/` folder. And should have
    a CMake **install rule** that makes them executable upon installation.
- The C++/pybind11 code for wrapping C++ code to Python must be placed in
    `srcpy/`

## III. Naming

Give as descriptive a name as possible, within reason. Do not worry about saving
horizontal space as it is far more important to make your code immediately 
understandable by a new reader. Do not use abbreviations that are ambiguous or 
unfamiliar to readers outside your project, and do not abbreviate by deleting 
letters within a word. Abbreviations that would be familiar to someone outside 
your project with relevant domain knowledge are OK. As a rule of thumb, an 
abbreviation is probably OK if it's listed in Wikipedia.

Formatting of names should be as follows:

- types (classes, structs, ...): *FirstUpperCamelCase*
- functions, methods: *lower_case_with_underscores*
- variables: *lower_case_with_underscores*
- class members: *like_variables_but_with_trailing_underscore_*
- constants: *UPPER_CASE_WITH_UNDERSCORES*
- global variables: Should generally be avoided but if needed, prefix them with
    g_, i.e. *g_variable_name*.

## IV. Add Units to Variable Names

Variables that hold values of a specific unit should have that unit appended to
the name.  For example if a variable holds the velocity of a motor in *krpm* it
should be called `velocity_krpm` instead of `just velocity`. Some more examples:

- duration_us (use "u" instead of "µ")
- voltage_mV
- acceleration_mps2 (\f$ \frac{m}{s^2} \f$)

## V. C/C++ Formatting

### V.1. Line Length

Limit the length of lines to 80 characters.

This may seem hard to follow sometimes but makes it much easier to view two or even three files next to each other (important during code review or when resolving merge conflicts).

### V.2. Indentation

- Use spaces instead of tabs.
- 4 spaces per "tab".

### V.3. Position of braces

- Opening brace always goes to the next line.
- **Always** add braces for single-line if/loop/etc.

Example:

~~~{.c}
namespace bar
{

class Foo
{
    void my_function(const Foo &foo, int *output_arg)
    {
        if (condition)
        {
            ...
        }
        else if (other_condition)
        {
            ...
        }
        else
        {
            ...
        }

        while (condition)
        {
            ...
        }
    }
}

} // namespace
~~~

### V.3. Spaces

Add single spaces between if/for/etc., the condition and the brace. add spaces
around most binary operators. Exception: No spaces around `::`, `.` and `->`.
Also no spaces for unary operators (`i++`, `&x`, `*x`, ...).

Example:
~~~{.c}
int x = 42;
for (int i = 0; i < x; i++)
{
    int y = i * x;
    if (y == foo.bar->baz)
    {
        ...
    }
}
~~~

### V.4. Formatting of switch blocks

- See the following example for proper indentation of switch blocks.
- Always add a default case, even when it is technically not needed.
    - If the default block is empty, it shall contain a comment to indicate that
    this is intentional.
    - The default case shall either be the first or the last case, preferably the
    last.
- Non-empty cases shall be terminated by an unconditional break.

~~~{.c}
switch (x)
{
    case 1:
        // ...
        break;
 
    case 2:
        // ...
        break;
 
    case 3: // multiple cases for one block are okay
    case 4:
        // ...
        break;
 
    case 5:           // BAD. A non-empty case without break should not be
        something();  // used
    case 6:
        more();
        break;
 
    default:
        // no action needed
        break;
}
~~~

### V.5. Clang-Format Configuration

To automatically format your code according to this guidelines, you can use
clang-format with the configuration
[here](https://github.com/machines-in-motion/mpi_cmake_modules/blob/master/resources/_clang-format).

## VI. C/C++ Coding Guidelines

### VI.1. Pass objects by const reference

In general, non-primitive data types should be passed to functions by const
reference instead of by value.

~~~{.c}
void foobar(const Foo &foo);  // good
void foobar(Foo foo);  // results in copy of `foo`. Only do this if const
                       // reference is not possible for some reason.
~~~

### VI.2. @code *#pragma once* @endcode vs Include Guards

Prefer @code *#pragma once* @endcode over include guards.
@code *#pragma once* @endcode is not part of the official standard but is widely
supported by compilers and much simpler to maintain.

Note that there are some border cases where @code *#pragma once* @endcode is causing issues
(e.g. on Windows or when having a weird build setup with symlinks or copies of
files). In such cases use traditional include guards. Make sure they have unique
names by composing them from the package name and the path/name of the file
(e.g. MY_PACKAGE_PATH_TO_FILE_FILENAME_H). Please **do not** add underscore as
prefix nor suffix beccause this is reserved for the compiler preproccesor
variables.

### VI.3. Keep scopes small

Avoid adding anything to the global namespace if possible. This means

- Use a namespace when defining extern symbols.
- Use an anonymous namespace or static for symbols that are only used internally.

Generally define symbols in the smallest possible scope, i.e. if a variable is 
only used inside one loop, define it inside this loop (however, do not consider 
this to be a very strict rule, deviate from it where it seems reasonable).

### VI.4. Use types with explicit sizes

The header stdint defines primitive types with explicit sizes:
*int32_t*, *uint32_t*, *int16_t*, ...
They should be preferred over the build-in types int, unsigned, short, ...
To use them add the following include:
~~~{.c}
#include <stdint>
~~~
